CS111 Lab 4 - Synchronization 

All parts and deliverables completed. 

Part 1: addtest

	All functionalities are implemented correctly. The program supports four long options, --yield, --iterations, --threads, and --sync.
	If running the program with more than one thread without synchronization options, the program will give wrong results. 
	The purpose of this module is to show that multi-threaded performance causes correctness issues, even to a very simple counter. 
	--sync has three options that correctly use multi-threaded performance. --sync=m protects access to shared variables with mutexes, 
	--sync=s uses spin locks, and --sync=c uses a bulit-in function __sync_val_compare_and_swap (not locking). 

Part 2: sltest

	All functionalities are implemented correctly. This program supports all the options addtest does in addition to a new --lists option. 
	The --yield option is also extended, because this module performs multi-threaded operations on a sorted linked list. --yield=[ids] will
	pause execution whilst in the middle of either inserting, deleting, or looking up an item in the list. Synchronization is even more rampant
	in this program. Only two synchronized options are available to achieve correct behavior in this program, which are mutexes and spin locks. 

Design: 

	An extra option for addtest and sltest is added. The --correct option allows users to see the "true" elapsed time for runs of the program. 
	Without --correct, the program reports a time that adds overhead for the time that it takes to create a thread and for that thread to start
	executing useful instructions. --correct fixes this issue. This is done by using clock_gettime. To avoid timing the thread overhead, the 
	timing starts within the useful function, instead of within the main driver. The overhead is discovered to be around 0.1 milliseconds, or
	100000 nanoseconds. 
	
answers.txt

	Answers to all questions in the spec are in this file, and some background information for the design problem 

CS111Lab4Data.pdf 

	All graphs required in the spec are described in this file. Some general trends are that
		* For single-threaded runs, increasing the number of iterations generally reduces average costs per operation. For low numbers of iterations, 
		it is evident that creating a thread takes more time than the actual useful operations the addtest module or sltest module needs to perform. 
		* For multi-threaded runs, increasing the number of threads while keeping the number of iterations constant increases the cost per 
		operation. This trend is due to race conditions. The price to pay for correctness is performance!

Note: 
	
	The Makefile for sltest is compiled with the -w flag (no warnings). The warnings that are suppresed are 
		* warning: suggest parentheses around assignment used as truth value
		* warning: passing argument 1 of ‘free’ discards qualifiers from pointer target type; expected ‘void *’ but argument is of type ‘volatile int *’

	The warnings are innocuous and do not affect program performance or correctness. Take out the -w flag if you wish you see the warnings for yourself. 
	It seems the compiler throws a warning when passing a volatile pointer to the free() function. 




